Cursor - Cursor is name for a sql query(select statement)
Named location for the memory where the query stores its results.
Cursor is a pointer to the memory location which hold the the information the select statement or DML statement and its result set .

Cursor Types - implicit cursor and explicit cursor
Implicit cursor
Any sql statement That is executed in oracle is through an implicit cursor. 
oracle opens a memory location ,executes it , returns a result and closes the memory location.
We cannot control implicit cursors.

Explicit Cursor
Fully Managed by the dev. 
Declare, Open , Fetch , Close . These 4 steps in the same order. 
Step1: Declare the cursor.
Step2  :Open (cursor name) keyword will execute the sql query and information will be loaded into the memory.
Once the information is loaded to the memory. The pointer points to the first row of the result set.
Step3 : when FetcH (Cursor Name) keyword is the executed, the value pointed in the cursor will loaded into the variable.
Once the record is fetched the pointer will move to the next row in the cursor.
Step4: close (cursor name) keyword is used to close the memory location of the cursor. Close the cursor and release the memory.

V$OPEN_CURSOR(select * from V$OPEN_CURSOR) - dynamic view which holds informationb about all the session cursors.
V$PARAMETER -(select * from  V$PARAMETER where name like '%open_cursors%') value =300 300 is the maximum no cursors that can be open per session.

Cursor Attributes - isopen , found, notfound ,rowcount - can be used to find information about the cursor when it is executed
found ,notfound and rowcount will return invalid cursor if it is used before opening the cursor.
found and notfound cannot be used in implicit cursor. since cursor opened and closed by oracle
isopen - returns true if cursor is open else returns false
not found -While using the fetch keyword in a loop, Use exit when (cursor name) %notfound to check if the cursor has reached the last record 
of the result set in the cursor. notfound is an boolean attribute which returns true when it reaches the end of the result set.
rowcount - retunrs the no of fetches successfully completed. This returns a number.
Syntax: explicit cursor cursor_name%isopen
implicit cursor - sql%isopen, sql%rowcount. isopen always returns false when used with implicit cursor

Explicit Cursor - Named Cursor ,Ref Cursor , For Cursor and Paramterized cursor

Parameterised Cursor - see example below
in declare ,cursor emp_name_list(p_dept_no number) is select ename from emp where deptno =p_dept_no;
inside begin , open emp_name_list(10);

Ref Cursor - Reference to a cursor 
it is a PL SQL data type using which you can declare special type of variable called cursor variable.
Two types of ref cursors - Strong typed ref cursor , Weakly typed ref cursor
Strong ref cursor - 


